OKTA-447961 Merge the OIN building/submission guides for OIDC integrations (#4146)
okta/okta-developer-docs: packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/oin-sso-overview/index.md

    content: Provides a high level overview of Single Sign-On app integrations for the Okta Integration Network.
---

The Okta Integration Network (OIN) is a collection of over 7000 pre-built app integrations to connect and exchange secure authentication between users, devices, and applications. Customers can easily integrate Okta Single Sign-On (SSO) to applications with a guided experience that still supports the most secure configuration options.

To get your app integration into the OIN:

1. [Build an app integration](/docs/guides/build-sso-integration/) using a free [Okta Developer Edition org](https://developer.okta.com/signup/) and any of the wide array of [languages and libraries](/code/) supported by Okta.
1. [Submit your app](/docs/guides/submit-app/) integration for verification and approval by the Okta OIN team.

> Your app is available in the OIN for the Okta community to use after Okta verifies and publishes your app integration.

Reviewer: again, potential for app integration

| **Enterprise ready** | Your customers have a growing set of compliance needs that are continuously evolving. An Okta app integration helps you meet compliance and audit requirements and shortens sales cycles. |
| **Ease of adoption** | Your customers can add SSO to your OIN-published app integration with minimal effort. They use Okta to add and configure your app integration into their identity ecosystem without extensive support from your customer service resources. Their workforce can access your app within hours of configuring the integration and policies. |

## Choose your SSO protocol

Okta supports two protocols for handling federated SSO: OpenID Connect (OIDC) and Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML). The SSO protocol that you choose to implement your app integration with is based on your app and use case. For new app integrations, OIDC is recommended.

| &nbsp; |  <span style="width: 24px;display:inline-block">![OIDC](/img/idp-logos/oidc.png)</span> OIDC | <span style="width: 22px;display:inline-block">![SAML](/img/idp-logos/saml.png)</span> SAML  |
| ------ | :------------------- | :----------------------- |

> | **Description** | [OpenID Connect](/docs/concepts/oauth-openid/#openid-connect) extends the OAuth 2.0 to provide an ID token that can be used to verify a user’s identity and sign them into a cloud-based application. It's quickly becoming the new standard for SSO. | [Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML)](/docs/concepts/saml) is a traditional enterprise protocol for SSO in web applications. Okta supports SAML 2.0. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| **Description** | [OpenID Connect](/docs/concepts/oauth-openid/#openid-connect) extends OAuth 2.0 to provide an ID token that can be used to verify a user’s identity and sign them into a cloud-based app. It's quickly becoming the new standard for SSO. | [Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML)](/docs/concepts/saml) is a traditional enterprise protocol for SSO in web applications. Okta supports SAML 2.0. |
```

> | **Benefits** | <ul><li>Newer protocol with widespread and growing use.</li> <li>Best Okta customer configuration experience</li> <li>Ideal for mobile and cloud applications</li> </ul> | <ul><li>Many people are familiar with SAML because it's an older protocol</li> <li>Widely used federation protocol for SSO in web apps</li> <li>Many SaaS providers support SAML integration to grant SSO access to end users</li></ul>|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| **Benefits** | <ul><li>Newer protocol with widespread and growing use.</li> <li>Best Okta customer configuration experience</li> <li>Ideal for mobile and cloud apps</li> </ul> | <ul><li>Many people are familiar with SAML because it's an older protocol</li> <li>Widely used federation protocol for SSO in web apps</li> <li>Many SaaS providers support SAML integration to grant SSO access to end users</li></ul>|
```

> **Note:** For specific OIDC and SAML protocol features not supported in the OIN, see [OIN submission limitations](/docs/guides/submit-app-prereq/main/#oin-limitations).

### Okta organization and multi-tenancy

In a typical scenario, your app relies on Okta to act as a multi-tenant Identity Provider (IdP) for your customers' Okta organizations. An [Okta org](/docs/concepts/okta-organizations/) acts as a container that sets hard boundaries for all users, applications, and other entities associated with a single customer. This provides tenant-based isolation. In developing your SSO app integration, the customer’s Okta org serves as the authorization server (OIDC) or as the IdP (SAML).

#### Tenants in Okta

Within Okta, the concept of a "tenant" is instantiated as an Okta "org". The org is the home for all user identity and access management, such as user store, handling connections, and mapping profile information. Your Okta org is used to authenticate your users for your application.

> In Google Cloud products, the user identity is globally unique across the entire identity namespace through their email address. By contrast, in Okta the unique identity concept is specific to just within the tenant used to authenticate and authorize. Your application must be coded so that it's aware of what tenant is being used to authenticate that user.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Google Cloud products, the user identity is globally unique across the entire identity namespace through their email address. By contrast, in Okta the unique identity concept is specific to just within the tenant used to authenticate and authorize. You must code your app so that it's aware of what tenant is being used to authenticate that user.
```

> As an example, `alice.doe@example.com` is a registered Okta user in both the Company1 and Company2 Okta tenants, accessed at `https://company1.okta.com` and `https://company2.okta.com`. Your application aims to provide different services for users, but specific to each tenant. You can't assume that the user information is identical for a given user across both tenants. Your application needs to manage user credentials to identify each unique combination of user and tenant.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As an example, `alice.doe@example.com` is a registered Okta user in both Company1 and Company2 Okta tenants, accessed at `https://company1.okta.com` and `https://company2.okta.com`. Your app aims to provide different services for users, but specific to each tenant. You can't assume that the user information is identical for a given user across both tenants. Your app needs to manage user credentials to identify each unique combination of user and tenant.
```

Okta orgs host their interfaces through individual subdomains and each org is assigned a separate URL. The typical org URL is the tenant name (the subdomain) followed by the domain name. However, you can customize the domain name for your own domain and add individual aliases for each of your tenants.

> > **Note:** The process for specifying the variable app instance names in an OIDC application is explained in the [Publish an OIN integration: OIDC settings](/docs/guides/submit-app/openidconnect/main/#configure-protocol-or-tool-specific-settings).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Note:** The process for specifying the variable app instance names in an OIDC app is explained in the [Publish an OIN integration: OIDC settings](/docs/guides/submit-app/openidconnect/main/#configure-protocol-or-tool-specific-settings).
```

> **Note:** For specific OIDC and SAML protocol features not supported in the OIN, see [OIN submission limitations](/docs/guides/submit-app-prereq/main/#oin-limitations).

### Okta organization and multi-tenancy

In a typical scenario, your app relies on Okta to act as a multi-tenant Identity Provider (IdP) for your customers' Okta organizations. An [Okta org](/docs/concepts/okta-organizations/) acts as a container that sets hard boundaries for all users, applications, and other entities associated with a single customer. This provides tenant-based isolation. In developing your SSO app integration, the customer’s Okta org serves as the authorization server (OIDC) or as the IdP (SAML).

#### Tenants in Okta

Within Okta, the concept of a "tenant" is instantiated as an Okta "org". The org is the home for all user identity and access management, such as user store, handling connections, and mapping profile information. Your Okta org is used to authenticate your users for your application.

> In Google Cloud products, the user identity is globally unique across the entire identity namespace through their email address. By contrast, in Okta the unique identity concept is specific to just within the tenant used to authenticate and authorize. Your application must be coded so that it's aware of what tenant is being used to authenticate that user.

Reviewer 3: its true in other products like sign in with facebook as well; is it purposeful to contrast with google cloud?

Author: This was a description brought over from the legacy docs. The original author probably wants to contrast with the Google identity use case, since Google products are widely known. It's up to PM if they want to update this description.

* Documents the required configuration steps for the customer admin
* Submits the integration and corresponding documentation for the Okta OIN team to verify and review

> After approval, Acme’s app is published on the OIN. With a pre-built Acme-Okta integration, Acme avoids extra support staff required for each individual customer integration.

Reviewer: I would say "to the OIN"

</Cards>
<br>

> After your app integration is built and tested, [review the submission requirements](/docs/guides/submit-app-prereq/main/) and [submit the integration](/docs/guides/submit-app/) to the Okta OIN team for verification.

Reviewer: we have some inconsistency throughout with "App integration" v "integration" v "application"
